.TH SANDBOX.YAML 5 "2026-07-03" "sudo-logger" "Sudo-logger Configuration"
.SH NAME
sandbox.yaml \- Configuration file for the sudo-logger eBPF LSM process sandbox
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sandbox.yaml
defines a deny-list of files, devices, and processes that are protected against
modification or interference by processes running inside a \fBsudo-logger\fR session.

The restrictions are enforced at the kernel level using \fBeBPF LSM\fR hooks,
making them effective even against the root user within a sandboxed session.
20 hooks (18 LSM + 2 tracepoints) are attached in total:
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlsm/file_open\fR, \fBlsm/file_permission\fR: Deny write-mode opens on protected inodes.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlsm/path_truncate\fR, \fBlsm/inode_setattr\fR: Prevent truncation attacks.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlsm/inode_unlink\fR, \fBlsm/inode_rename\fR: Deny deletion or renaming of protected files.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlsm/inode_create\fR, \fBlsm/inode_mkdir\fR, \fBlsm/inode_mknod\fR, \fBlsm/inode_symlink\fR: Prevent file creation inside protected directories.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlsm/task_kill\fR: Prevent sending signals to protected processes.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlsm/socket_create\fR: Prevent creating \fBAF_NETLINK\fR sockets (firewall/route tampering).
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlsm/bprm_check_security\fR: Block execution of binaries in \fBforbidden\fR or under \fBnoexec\fR directories.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlsm/ptrace_access_check\fR: Prevent attaching to/debugging processes outside the sandbox.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlsm/sb_mount\fR: Prevent mounting a filesystem over a protected inode.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlsm/capable\fR: Restrict specific capabilities (\fBCAP_NET_ADMIN\fR, \fBCAP_AUDIT_CONTROL\fR, \fBCAP_SYS_MODULE\fR, \fBCAP_MAC_ADMIN\fR, \fBCAP_SYS_RAWIO\fR, \fBCAP_SYS_BOOT\fR).
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlsm/unix_stream_connect\fR: Block D-Bus/systemd control-socket connections when \fBdeny_systemd_ipc\fR is enabled.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlsm/bpf\fR: Prevent tampering with the sandbox's own BPF maps.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBtp_btf/sched_process_fork\fR: Propagate sandbox state to all child processes at fork time.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBtp_btf/sched_process_exit\fR: Remove a process from sandbox tracking on exit.
.SH FILE FORMAT
The file uses YAML format with a single top-level \fBprotect\fR key.
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBprotect:\fR
  \fBfiles:\fR
    \- /etc/sudoers
    \- /etc/sudo-logger
  \fBforbidden:\fR
    \- /usr/bin/firewall\-cmd
  \fBnoexec:\fR
    \- /tmp
    \- /dev/shm
  \fBdevices:\fR
    \- /dev/nvme0n1
  \fBproc:\fR
    \- /proc/sysrq-trigger
  \fBsockets:\fR
    \- /run/sudo-logger/plugin.sock
  \fBprocesses:\fR
    \- auditd
    \- sshd
.fi
.RE
.SH SECTIONS
.TP
.B files
A list of absolute paths to regular files or directories.
Protected files cannot be opened for writing, truncated, deleted, or renamed.
Protected directories cannot have new files or subdirectories created inside them.
Protection is recursive for all existing files found inside a directory at agent startup.
.TP
.B forbidden
A list of absolute paths to binaries forbidden from execution inside any
session, matched by inode (renaming the binary is still blocked; copying it
to a new path creates a new inode that is not covered — pair with
\fBnoexec\fR to close that gap).
.TP
.B noexec
A list of directories under which execution is blocked entirely, preventing
a forbidden binary from being copied elsewhere and run from there.
\fBWARNING:\fR not safe on Btrfs — every subvolume root (e.g. \fB/\fR,
\fB/home\fR) shares inode 256 on the same device, so listing a subvolume
root also matches \fB/\fR and blocks all execution in the session. Safe on
ext4 and xfs only; the agent logs a warning if inode 256 is detected.
.TP
.B devices
A list of device nodes (e.g., \fB/dev/sda\fR). Prevents raw hardware access.
.TP
.B proc
A list of entries in the \fB/proc\fR filesystem. Prevents modification of sensitive kernel parameters.
.TP
.B sockets
A list of Unix domain socket files. Prevents deletion or replacement of the socket file.
Does \fBnot\fR block \fBconnect(2)\fR or data transmission to the socket.
.TP
.B processes
A list of process names (\fBcomm\fR). Processes in the sandbox are forbidden
from sending \fBany\fR signal (including \fBSIGKILL\fR and \fBSIGTERM\fR)
to these processes.
.IP
This effectively prevents a sandboxed root user from stopping protected systemd
services using \fBsystemctl stop\fR or \fBkill\fR.
.IP
\fBNOTE:\fR Linux process names are limited to 15 characters. Longer names are
truncated. Use \fBcat /proc/<pid>/comm\fR to verify the exact name.
.SH SCOPE
Restrictions only apply to processes that are:
.IP 1.
Members of a \fBsudo-logger\fR session cgroup.
.IP 2.
Descendants of a \fBsudo\fR process tracked by the agent since session start.
.PP
Processes outside of active \fBsudo-logger\fR sessions are completely unaffected.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
Requires \fBCONFIG_BPF_LSM=y\fR and \fBbpf\fR present in the active LSM list
(verify with \fBgrep bpf /sys/kernel/security/lsm\fR).
On Fedora\ 38 and later \fBbpf\fR is active by default; no boot parameter
changes are needed.
On older or non-Fedora kernels add \fBlsm=bpf\fR to \fBGRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX\fR
and run \fBgrub2-mkconfig\fR.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/sudo-logger/sandbox.yaml
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sudo-logger-agent (8),
.BR sudo_logger_plugin (8)
