.TH SUDO\-REPLAY\-SERVER 8 "2026-04-11" "sudo-logger 1.17.0" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
sudo\-replay\-server \- web interface for replaying sudo session recordings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sudo\-replay\-server
[\fB\-listen\fR \fIaddr\fR]
[\fB\-logdir\fR \fIdir\fR]
[\fB\-rules\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-siem-config\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-storage\fR \fIbackend\fR]
[\fB\-s3\-bucket\fR \fIname\fR]
[\fB\-db\-url\fR \fIDSN\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sudo\-replay\-server
is a self-contained HTTP server that reads asciinema v2 session recordings written by
.BR sudo\-logserver (8)
and serves a browser-based terminal player.
.PP
In
.B local storage mode
(default) sessions are read directly from the filesystem under
.BR \-logdir .
In
.B distributed storage mode
session recordings are stored in S3 (or an S3-compatible store such as MinIO)
and metadata is held in PostgreSQL; specify
.B \-storage=distributed
together with
.B \-s3\-bucket
and
.BR \-db\-url .
.PP
No external dependencies are required in local mode.
The frontend (xterm.js and supporting CSS) is embedded in the binary.
.PP
Features of the web interface:
.IP \(bu 4
Session list with live search by user, host, or command (AND logic).
.IP \(bu
Date range filter.
.IP \(bu
Sort by time, user, host, duration, or risk score.
.IP \(bu
Terminal player with play/pause, scrubbing, and speed control (0.25\(mu\(en16\(mu).
.IP \(bu
Keyboard shortcuts:
.B Space
(play/pause),
.B \(la\(ra
(seek \(+-5 s),
.B R
(restart).
.IP \(bu
Deep-link URLs track the selected session and playback position.
.IP \(bu
Risk badge on every session card (Low / Medium / High / Critical).
.PP
.B Summary tab
\(em aggregate statistics for a selectable date range: total sessions, unique
users and hosts, incomplete sessions, sessions > 2 h, High Risk and Critical
sessions.  Per-user table with sortable columns.  Click any stat card to filter
the table.  User search box.
.PP
.B Anomalies tab
\(em flagged sessions grouped by rule: incomplete sessions, High Risk (score
\(>= 50), root shell invocations, after-hours activity (23:00\(en06:00), and
sessions longer than 2 h.  Sortable columns; each row links directly to the
session in the player.
.PP
.B Risk scoring
\(em every session receives a score from 0 to 100 based on configurable rules
loaded from the file specified by
.BR \-rules .
Rules match against the sudo command line and, for interactive shell sessions,
the terminal output events in
.BR session.cast .
Scores are cached in a
.B risk.json
file alongside each session directory and are invalidated automatically when
the rules file changes.
.PP
Risk levels:
.RS
.IP "Low" 12
0\(en24
.IP "Medium" 12
25\(en49
.IP "High" 12
50\(en74
.IP "Critical" 12
75\(en100
.RE
.PP
.B Settings tab
\(em browser UI for viewing, adding, editing, and deleting risk rules, and for
configuring SIEM forwarding.  Rule changes take effect without a server restart.
.PP
.B SIEM forwarding
\(em completed sessions are forwarded after each session closes.
In local storage mode the server watches for
.B ACTIVE
marker removal using
.BR inotify (7).
In distributed storage mode it polls the
.B sudo_sessions
PostgreSQL table every 5 seconds; a PostgreSQL advisory lock
.RB ( pg_try_advisory_lock )
ensures that only one replica forwards events when multiple pods are running.
Events include all session metadata and the computed risk score.
.PP
Three event formats are supported:
.TP
.B json
Flat JSON object.
Fields:
.BR session_id ,
.BR user ,
.BR host ,
.BR runas ,
.BR runas_uid ,
.BR runas_gid ,
.BR command ,
.BR resolved_command ,
.BR cwd ,
.BR flags ,
.BR start_time ,
.BR end_time ,
.BR duration_s ,
.BR exit_code ,
.BR incomplete ,
.BR risk_score ,
.BR risk_reasons ,
.BR replay_url .
.TP
.B cef
CEF:0 syslog format (ArcSight).
Extension fields include
.BR rt ,
.BR shost ,
.BR suser ,
.BR duser ,
.BR duid ,
.BR dgid ,
.BR dproc ,
.BR cs1 = session_id,
.BR cs2 = cwd,
.BR cs3 = resolved_command,
.BR cs4 = flags,
.BR cs5 = status,
.BR cs6 = replay_url,
.BR cn1 = exit_code,
.BR cn2 = duration_s,
.BR cn3 = risk_score,
.BR cs7 = risk_reasons.
.TP
.B ocsf
OCSF v1.3.0 Class 3003 (Process Activity).
Risk score and reasons are included in the
.B unmapped
object.
.PP
Three transport protocols are supported:
.TP
.B https
HTTP POST with TLS.
Client certificates are required (mTLS); plain TLS without a client
certificate is not accepted.
The CA certificate must be configured so the server certificate can be
verified.
A bearer or Splunk HEC token can optionally be set.
Certificate upload via the Settings UI is available in local storage mode only;
in distributed (Kubernetes) mode manage certificates with Kubernetes Secrets.
.TP
.B syslog
RFC 5424 syslog message.
Three sub-protocols are available:
.B udp
(connectionless; messages may be lost),
.B tcp
(reliable, no encryption),
.B tcp-tls
(reliable, TLS 1.2+, mTLS optional).
Facility: LOG_AUTHPRIV (10).
Severity: NOTICE on success, WARNING on non-zero exit or incomplete session.
.TP
.B stdout
Writes each event as a single line to standard output.
The container runtime collects the output and the log aggregation pipeline
(Fluentd, Promtail, Vector, etc.) forwards it to the SIEM.
Recommended for Kubernetes deployments: no TLS certificates or endpoint
configuration required.
.PP
SIEM configuration is stored in
.B /etc/sudo-logger/siem.yaml
(local mode) or in the
.B sudo_config
PostgreSQL table (distributed mode),
and is writable via the Settings tab in the browser.
.PP
The server runs as the
.B sudologger
system user.
It needs read access to the log directory and read/write access to
.I /etc/sudo-logger
(for the Settings tab to update the rules file) and to
.I /var/log/sudoreplay
(for writing
.B risk.json
cache files).
.PP
Three authentication modes are supported and can be combined freely:
.IP \(bu 4
.B No auth
\(em deploy behind a reverse proxy (Pomerium, oauth2-proxy, OpenShift ingress)
that handles authentication.
.IP \(bu
.B HTTP Basic Auth
\(em pass
.B \-auth user:bcrypt-hash
to require login.
The server enforces auth locally without external dependencies.
.IP \(bu
.B Trusted header
\(em pass
.B \-trusted-user-header X-Forwarded-User
to log the username set by an upstream proxy.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-listen " addr"
Address to listen on in
.I host:port
format.
Default:
.BR :8080 .
.TP
.BI \-logdir " dir"
Base directory containing session logs, as written by
.BR sudo\-logserver (8).
Default:
.BR /var/log/sudoreplay .
.TP
.BI \-rules " file"
Path to the YAML risk-scoring rules file.
The server exits at startup if this file cannot be loaded.
Default:
.BR /etc/sudo-logger/risk-rules.yaml .
.TP
.BI \-siem-config " file"
Path to the SIEM forwarding configuration file.
The file is shared with
.BR sudo\-logserver (8)
and uses YAML format.
If the file does not exist, SIEM forwarding is disabled.
The Settings tab in the browser provides a GUI for editing this file.
Default:
.BR /etc/sudo-logger/siem.yaml .
.TP
.BI \-storage " backend"
Storage backend to use.
.B local
(default) reads sessions from the local filesystem under
.BR \-logdir .
.B distributed
reads session metadata from PostgreSQL and cast files from S3.
.TP
.BI \-s3\-bucket " name"
S3 bucket name (required when
.BR \-storage=distributed ).
.TP
.BI \-s3\-endpoint " url"
Override the S3 endpoint URL (required for MinIO and StorageGRID, e.g.\&
.BR https://minio.internal:9000 ).
.TP
.B \-s3\-path\-style
Force path-style S3 URLs.
Required for MinIO and StorageGRID.
.TP
.BI \-s3\-access\-key " key"
Static S3 access key.
Leave empty to use the standard AWS credential chain.
.TP
.BI \-s3\-secret\-key " key"
Static S3 secret key (see
.BR \-s3\-access\-key ).
.TP
.BI \-db\-url " DSN"
PostgreSQL connection string (required when
.BR \-storage=distributed ).
Example:
.IR "postgres://user:pass@host:5432/dbname?sslmode=require" .\" pragma: allowlist secret
The schema is created automatically at startup.
.TP
.BI \-tls-cert " file"
Path to a PEM-encoded TLS certificate.
Must be combined with
.BR \-tls-key .
When both are set the server listens on HTTPS with TLS 1.2 or later.
.TP
.BI \-tls-key " file"
Path to a PEM-encoded TLS private key.
Must be combined with
.BR \-tls-cert .
.TP
.BI \-htpasswd " file"
Enable HTTP Basic Auth using credentials loaded from an htpasswd file.
The file must contain one entry per line in the format
.IR username : bcrypt-hash .
Lines beginning with
.B #
and blank lines are ignored.
Only bcrypt hashes (
.BR $2b$ ,
.BR $2y$ )
are accepted; MD5 and SHA1 entries are rejected with a log warning and skipped.
The server exits at startup if the file cannot be read.
.PP
.B Recommended file permissions:
.EX
chown root:sudologger /etc/sudo\-logger/replay.htpasswd
chmod 0640            /etc/sudo\-logger/replay.htpasswd
.EE
.RS
Root owns and writes the file.
The
.B sudologger
service user has read access.
World access is denied — the file contains bcrypt hashes that could be
brute-forced offline if exposed.
.RE
.PP
Send
.B SIGHUP
to reload the file without restarting the service:
.EX
systemctl kill \-\-signal=HUP sudo\-replay
.EE
.TP
.BI \-trusted-user-header " header"
Name of an HTTP request header that contains the pre-authenticated username
set by an upstream proxy, for example
.BR X-Forwarded-User .
The value is recorded in the access log.
No authentication is enforced by this flag alone \(em the proxy must
restrict access before requests reach the server.
.SS Authentication examples
.PP
Standalone with HTTPS and Basic Auth:
.EX
# Create htpasswd file
htpasswd \-cBb /etc/sudo\-logger/replay.htpasswd admin yourpassword

sudo\-replay\-server \e
  \-tls\-cert   /etc/sudo\-logger/replay.crt \e
  \-tls\-key    /etc/sudo\-logger/replay.key \e
  \-htpasswd   /etc/sudo\-logger/replay.htpasswd
.EE
.PP
Behind Pomerium or oauth2-proxy (proxy handles TLS and auth):
.EX
sudo\-replay\-server \-trusted\-user\-header X\-Forwarded\-User
.EE
.PP
OpenShift ingress (ingress terminates TLS, proxy sets header):
.EX
sudo\-replay\-server \-trusted\-user\-header X\-Forwarded\-User
.EE
.SH API
.TP
.B GET /healthz
Always returns
.B 200 OK
with body
.BR ok .
Use this endpoint for Kubernetes liveness and readiness probes in preference to
.B /api/sessions
(which performs a full session scan).
.TP
.B GET /api/sessions
Returns a paginated, filtered list of sessions.
Query parameters:
.BR q ,
.BR sort ,
.BR order ,
.BR limit ,
.BR offset ,
.BR from ,
.BR to .
.TP
.B GET /api/session/events?tsid=\fITSID\fR
Returns the playback events (tty I/O with timing) for the session identified
by
.IR TSID .
The TSID format is
.IR user / host _ YYYYMMDD\- HHMMSS .
.TP
.B GET /api/report
Returns aggregate statistics and anomaly list for the date range specified by
optional query parameters
.B from
and
.B to
(ISO 8601 date, e.g.
.IR 2026-04-01 ).
.TP
.B GET /api/rules
Returns the current risk-scoring rules as JSON, along with the path of the
rules file on disk.
.TP
.B PUT /api/rules
Replaces the rules with the JSON body, writes them back to the rules file, and
reloads the active rule set.  Any existing
.B risk.json
caches are invalidated on the next session load.
.TP
.B GET /api/siem-config
Returns the current SIEM configuration as JSON, read directly from
.BR siem.yaml .
.TP
.B PUT /api/siem-config
Validates and writes an updated SIEM configuration to
.BR siem.yaml .
Accepted fields match the SIEM CONFIG FILE section below.
.TP
.B POST /api/siem-cert
Accepts a PEM file upload (multipart field
.BR file )
and saves it under the same directory as
.BR siem.yaml .
Filename must match
.BR [a-zA-Z0-9._-]{1,64}\\.(crt|pem|key) .
Maximum 64 KB.
Returns the saved path.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM\fR / \fBSIGINT
Initiate a graceful shutdown.
The server stops accepting new HTTP connections and waits up to 30 seconds
for in-flight requests to complete before the process exits.
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Reload the htpasswd file (when
.B \-htpasswd
is in use) without restarting the server.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /var/log/sudoreplay/
Default log directory.
Session recordings are read from here; risk.json cache files are written
alongside each session directory.
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/risk-rules.yaml
Default risk-scoring rules file (read/write; the Settings tab updates this file).
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/siem.yaml
SIEM forwarding configuration (read/write; the Settings tab updates this file).
Not installed by default; created on first save via the Settings UI.
In distributed storage mode the configuration is stored in the
.B sudo_config
PostgreSQL table instead of a file.
Must be readable by the
.B sudologger
service user.
See
.B SIEM CONFIG FILE
below.
.PP
.B PostgreSQL tables (distributed storage mode only):
.RS
.TP
.B sudo_sessions
Session metadata: user, host, command, start/end times, exit code, status.
.TP
.B sudo_risk_cache
Cached risk scores and reasons, keyed by session ID and rules-file hash.
.TP
.B sudo_blocked_users
Blocked-user policy (replaces blocked-users.yaml).
.TP
.B sudo_config
SIEM configuration and other key-value settings (replaces siem.yaml).
.TP
.B sudo_access_log
Audit log of session views: who viewed which session and when.
In local storage mode this log is kept in memory (up to 10,000 entries)
and is lost on restart.
.TP
.B sudo_access_log (indexes)
.B sudo_access_log_viewer
(by viewer) and
.B sudo_access_log_viewed_at
(by view time descending) for efficient lookups.
.RE
.SH SIEM CONFIG FILE
The SIEM configuration file is a YAML document at
.B /etc/sudo-logger/siem.yaml
(path overridable with
.BR \-siem-config ).
.PP
Top-level fields:
.TP
.B enabled
Boolean.
Set to
.B true
to enable forwarding.
.TP
.B transport
String.
.BR https ,
.BR syslog ,
or
.BR stdout .
Use
.B stdout
in Kubernetes environments to let the container runtime collect events
(no TLS certificates or endpoint configuration required).
.TP
.B format
String.
.BR json ,
.BR cef ,
or
.BR ocsf .
.TP
.B replay_url_base
Optional URL prefix for session deep-links included in SIEM events.
Example:
.BR https://replay.example.com:8080 .
The full replay URL is constructed as
.IR base /?tsid= TSID
where TSID is
.IR user / host _ YYYYMMDD\- HHMMSS .
.PP
HTTPS transport fields (under
.BR https: ):
.TP
.B url
Destination URL, e.g.\&
.BR https://siem.example.com/ingest .
.TP
.B token
Optional bearer token (
.BI "Authorization: Bearer " token )
or Splunk HEC token (
.BI "Authorization: Splunk " token
when the URL contains
.BR /services/collector ).
.TP
.B ca ,\  cert ,\  key
Paths to PEM files for TLS CA verification and optional mTLS client certificate.
.PP
Syslog transport fields (under
.BR syslog: ):
.TP
.B addr
Destination address in
.I host:port
format, e.g.\&
.BR siem.example.com:514 .
.TP
.B protocol
.BR udp ,
.BR tcp ,
or
.BR tcp-tls .
.TP
.B ca ,\  cert ,\  key
Paths to PEM files for TLS (used only with
.BR tcp-tls ).
.PP
Example configuration (JSON format, syslog/UDP):
.EX
enabled: true
transport: syslog
format: json
replay_url_base: https://replay.example.com:8080
syslog:
  addr: siem.example.com:514
  protocol: udp
.EE
.SH SECURITY
The TSID path parameter is validated to contain only safe characters
.RB ( [a-zA-Z0-9/_\-.] ,
no
.BR .. ).
Symlinks are resolved with
.BR EvalSymlinks (3)
before verifying that the resolved path stays within the log directory.
.PP
Session recordings may contain sensitive data such as passwords typed at
the terminal, private key material, or other confidential output.
Restrict access to the web interface accordingly.
.SH RULE FILE
The risk-scoring rules file is a YAML document with a top-level
.B rules
list.
Each rule is a mapping with the following keys.
.SS Identification
.TP
.B id
Unique identifier for the rule.
Use
.I snake_case
(e.g.\&
.BR stop_auditd ).
.TP
.B score
Integer 1\(en100.
Added to the session total when the rule matches.
Multiple rules can match; scores accumulate, capped at 100.
.TP
.B reason
Short description displayed in the session info bar, risk badges, and the
Anomalies tab.
.SS Command matching
Matched against the full sudo command line (everything after
.BR sudo ).
.TP
.B command.contains_any
List of substrings.
At least one must appear in the command line.
.TP
.B command.also_any
List of substrings.
At least one must
.I also
appear \(em used to require two independent keywords.
.TP
.B command_base_any
List of program names (basename of argv[0]).
Matches the command name exactly, ignoring arguments.
Preferred over
.B contains_any
for matching shell interpreters such as
.BR bash ,
.BR sh ,
or
.BR python3 .
.SS Shell content matching
Scanned against the terminal output events in
.B session.cast
for interactive sessions.
Useful for detecting commands typed
.I inside
a shell, which are invisible to command-line matching.
Content is matched case-insensitively after ANSI escape codes are stripped.
Up to 512 KB of output is read.
.TP
.B content.contains_any
At least one of the listed substrings must appear in the terminal output.
.TP
.B content.also_any
At least one must
.I also
appear — used to require two independent indicators.
.SS Session metadata conditions
.TP
.B runas
Only match sessions where sudo ran as this user.
Omit to match any user; the default in most rules is
.BR root .
.TP
.B min_duration
Only match sessions that lasted at least this many seconds (float).
.TP
.B incomplete
Boolean.
Only match sessions that ended without a clean
.B SESSION_END
message (e.g.\& the shipper was killed mid-session).
.TP
.B after_hours
Boolean.
Only match sessions started between 23:00 and 05:59.
.SS Combining conditions
All conditions within a rule are ANDed: every specified field must match.
Items within a
.B contains_any
or
.B also_any
list are ORed: any one of them is sufficient.
.B command
and
.B content
blocks are ORed with each other: the rule fires if either the command
.I or
the terminal output matches (while all other conditions still hold).
.SS Example rule
.EX
- id: stop_auditd
  score: 80
  reason: Audit daemon stopped or disabled
  command:
    contains_any: [auditd]
    also_any:     [stop, disable, mask]

- id: root_shell
  score: 50
  reason: Direct root shell
  command_base_any: [bash, sh, zsh, fish, ksh]

- id: passwd_tamper
  score: 70
  reason: Auth file manipulation
  content:
    contains_any: [/etc/passwd, /etc/shadow, /etc/sudoers]
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sudo\-logserver (8),
.BR sudo\-shipper (8)
