.TH SUDO_LOGGER_PLUGIN 8 "2026-03-15" "sudo-logger 1.6.0" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
sudo_logger_plugin \- sudo I/O plugin for real-time remote session recording
.SH SYNOPSIS
In
.BR /etc/sudo.conf :
.PP
.RS
.B Plugin sudo_logger_plugin sudo_logger_plugin.so
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sudo_logger_plugin
is a sudo I/O plugin (see
.BR sudo_plugin (5))
that records every sudo session and ships it in real time to a remote log
server via the local
.BR sudo\-shipper (8)
daemon.
.PP
The plugin hooks into every sudo invocation at the I/O level,
capturing stdin, stdout, stderr, terminal input, and terminal output.
All I/O is forwarded as framed chunks over a Unix socket to
.BR sudo\-shipper (8),
which relays them to
.BR sudo\-logserver (8)
over a mutual TLS connection.
.PP
At session open
.RB ( plugin_open ),
the plugin:
.IP 1. 4
Opens
.B /dev/tty
for banner output.
.IP 2.
Generates a unique session ID from hostname, username, PID, nanosecond
timestamp, and 4 cryptographically random bytes.
.IP 3.
Connects to
.BR sudo\-shipper (8)
via the Unix socket and sends a
.B SESSION_START
message containing session metadata including terminal dimensions
.RB ( cols ", " lines )
read from
.BR command_info[] .
.IP 4.
Blocks until the shipper replies with
.B SESSION_READY
(server reachable) or
.B SESSION_ERROR
(server unreachable).
If the server is unreachable, the command is blocked and never executes.
.IP 5.
Calls
.BR unshare (2)
with
.B CLONE_NEWCGROUP
to enter a new cgroup namespace rooted at the session cgroup.
Child processes see this cgroup as
.B /sys/fs/cgroup
and cannot reference or write to cgroups outside it, preventing cgroup
escape even by processes holding
.BR CAP_SYS_ADMIN .
Non-fatal: if the call fails a syslog warning is written and the session
continues without cgroup namespace isolation.
.IP 6.
Starts a background monitor thread that polls ACK state every 150 ms.
.PP
During a session the monitor thread writes a freeze banner to the terminal
when ACKs from the server stop arriving, and an unfreeze banner when they
resume.
Actual process freezing is performed by
.BR sudo\-shipper (8)
using cgroup.freeze, not by the plugin.
.PP
At session close
.RB ( plugin_close ),
a
.B SESSION_END
message with the exit code is sent to the shipper.
.SH INSTALLATION
The plugin is loaded via
.BR /etc/sudo.conf .
The client RPM adds this line automatically on install and removes it on
uninstall:
.PP
.RS
.B Plugin sudo_logger_plugin sudo_logger_plugin.so
.RE
.PP
To add it manually:
.RS
.EX
echo 'Plugin sudo_logger_plugin sudo_logger_plugin.so' >> /etc/sudo.conf
.EE
.RE
The plugin shared object is installed at
.BR /usr/libexec/sudo/sudo_logger_plugin.so .
.SH CONFIGURATION
The plugin itself has no configuration file.
All runtime parameters (server address, certificates) are configured in
.BR /etc/sudo-logger/shipper.conf
and the
.BR sudo\-shipper (8)
service.
.PP
Compile-time tunables in
.BR plugin/plugin.c :
.TP
.B SHIPPER_SOCK_PATH
Unix socket path (default:
.BR /run/sudo-logger/plugin.sock ).
.TP
.B ACK_TIMEOUT_SECS
Seconds without a fresh ACK before the freeze banner is shown (default: 2).
.TP
.B ACK_QUERY_TIMEOUT_MS
Maximum wait for an
.B ACK_RESPONSE
from the shipper (default: 100 ms).
.SH BEHAVIOUR ON FAILURE
.TP
.B Server unreachable at session start
The plugin returns \-1 from
.BR plugin_open ,
blocking the sudo command before execution.
An error banner is displayed on the terminal or via
.BR sudo_plugin_printf .
.TP
.B Server unreachable during session
The shipper freezes the child process via cgroup.freeze within approximately
one second.
The plugin displays the freeze banner on
.BR /dev/tty .
The session resumes automatically if the server comes back within ~2 seconds.
.TP
.B Shipper daemon not running
The plugin cannot connect to the Unix socket and blocks the command.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/libexec/sudo/sudo_logger_plugin.so
Plugin shared object loaded by sudo.
.TP
.B /etc/sudo.conf
sudo configuration file.
Must contain:
.B Plugin sudo_logger_plugin sudo_logger_plugin.so
.TP
.B /run/sudo-logger/plugin.sock
Unix domain socket for communication with
.BR sudo\-shipper (8).
Mode 0600; only root processes may connect.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sudo\-shipper (8),
.BR sudo\-logserver (8),
.BR sudo\-replay\-server (8),
.BR sudo_plugin (5),
.BR sudo.conf (5),
.BR sudoreplay (8)
