.TH SUDO\-SHIPPER 8 "2026-03-15" "sudo-logger 1.6.0" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
sudo\-shipper \- local daemon that bridges the sudo I/O plugin to the remote log server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sudo\-shipper
[\fB\-server\fR \fIaddr\fR]
[\fB\-socket\fR \fIpath\fR]
[\fB\-cert\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-key\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-ca\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-verifykey\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-freeze\-timeout\fR \fIduration\fR]
[\fB\-idle\-timeout\fR \fIduration\fR]
[\fB\-wayland\fR \fIbool\fR]
[\fB\-debug\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sudo\-shipper
is a systemd daemon that runs as root on each client machine.
It acts as a proxy between the sudo I/O plugin (connected via a Unix socket)
and the remote
.BR sudo\-logserver (8)
instance (connected via mutual TLS).
.PP
One goroutine is spawned per sudo session.
Each goroutine opens a dedicated TLS connection to the log server,
forwards
.BR SESSION_START ,
.BR CHUNK ,
and
.B SESSION_END
messages, and tracks the ACK state for that session.
.PP
The shipper uses a priority-based asynchronous delivery system. Critical
control messages (heartbeats, termination signals) and user input are
placed in a high-priority queue, while bulk terminal output is buffered
in a larger bulk queue. This ensures that heartbeats and input are never
starved by high-volume output bursts, preventing false-positive session
freezes.
.PP
If the log server is unreachable when a new session arrives,
.B sudo\-shipper
returns a
.B SESSION_ERROR
reply; the sudo plugin then blocks the command from running.
.PP
If the server stops acknowledging during a session,
the shipper freezes all child processes in the session cgroup within
approximately one second.
The session is automatically resumed when the server becomes reachable again.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-server " addr"
Address of the remote log server in
.I host:port
format.
Default:
.BR logserver:9876 .
.TP
.BI \-socket " path"
Path to the Unix domain socket that the sudo plugin connects to.
Default:
.BR /run/sudo-logger/plugin.sock .
.TP
.BI \-cert " file"
Path to the PEM-encoded client TLS certificate.
Default:
.BR /etc/sudo-logger/client.crt .
.TP
.BI \-key " file"
Path to the PEM-encoded client TLS private key.
Default:
.BR /etc/sudo-logger/client.key .
.TP
.BI \-ca " file"
Path to the PEM-encoded CA certificate used to verify the server.
Default:
.BR /etc/sudo-logger/ca.crt .
.TP
.BI \-verifykey " file"
Path to the PEM-encoded ed25519 public key used to verify ACK signatures
from the server.
Default:
.BR /etc/sudo-logger/ack-verify.key .
.TP
.BI \-freeze-timeout " duration"
Terminate a frozen session after this duration of server unreachability.
The session cgroup is unfrozen and the child process receives SIGTERM.
The session is marked as
.I network_outage
in the replay UI regardless of this value (that signal is sent within 800\~ms
of the first missed heartbeat).
Set to
.B 0
to never terminate frozen sessions automatically.
Default:
.BR 3m .
.TP
.BI \-idle-timeout " duration"
Terminate a session that has received no user input (stdin or ttyin stream)
for this duration.
When the timeout fires, a banner is written to the controlling terminal,
.B SIGHUP
is sent to the sudo process, and the plugin socket is closed one second later
to ensure termination even if the process ignores
.BR SIGHUP .
Set to
.B 0
to disable idle termination entirely.
Default:
.BR 0 .
.TP
.BI \-wayland " bool"
Enable or disable Wayland screen capture for GUI sessions.
Default:
.BR true .
.TP
.B \-debug
Enable verbose debug logging.
By default only errors and key events (session start, freeze/unfreeze) are
logged.
With
.B \-debug
all cgroup operations are also logged to the journal.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/shipper.conf
Configuration file read by the systemd unit.
Sets
.B LOGSERVER=
(address of the remote log server).
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/client.crt
Client TLS certificate presented to the server during mutual TLS.
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/client.key
Private key for the client TLS certificate.
Permissions should be 0600.
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/ca.crt
Certificate Authority certificate used to verify the server certificate.
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/ack-verify.key
ed25519 public key (PEM PKIX) used to verify ACK signatures.
Generated by the server RPM; copy to each client after server installation.
.TP
.B /run/sudo-logger/plugin.sock
Unix domain socket.
Permissions 0600; only root processes (sudo) may connect.
Peer UID is verified via
.B SO_PEERCRED
before the connection is accepted.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM ", " SIGINT
Gracefully unfreezes all active session cgroups before exiting.
This prevents processes from being left in a permanently frozen state
if the shipper is restarted during an active sudo session
(e.g. during a system update).
.SH SECURITY
The shipper verifies two properties before accepting a connection on the plugin socket:
.IP \(bu 4
File permissions: the socket is mode 0600 (root only).
.IP \(bu
Peer credentials: the connecting process must have UID 0,
verified via
.BR SO_PEERCRED .
.PP
ACK messages from the server are verified using ed25519 signatures.
The signed message includes the session ID, sequence number, and timestamp,
so an ACK captured from one session cannot be replayed against another.
.PP
.B cgroup namespace isolation
.PP
The shipper moves the sudo process into a per-session cgroup before sending
.B SESSION_READY
to the plugin.
The plugin then calls
.BR unshare (2)
with
.B CLONE_NEWCGROUP
so that child processes (bash, helper programs) see the session cgroup as
their filesystem root for
.IR /sys/fs/cgroup .
A child process cannot reference or write to cgroups outside this subtree,
so it cannot self-migrate to escape
.B cgroup.freeze
even if it holds
.BR CAP_SYS_ADMIN .
.PP
The shipper itself remains in the host cgroup namespace and continues to
manage
.B cgroup.freeze
and
.B cgroup.procs
via the full host path.
The existing Unix socket connection between plugin and shipper is unaffected
because sockets are not part of the cgroup namespace.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sudo\-logserver (8),
.BR sudo\-replay\-server (8),
.BR sudo_logger_plugin (8),
.BR sudoreplay (8),
.BR sudo.conf (5),
.BR systemd.unit (5)
