.TH SUDO\-LOGGER\-AGENT 8 "2026-05-03" "sudo-logger 1.20.26" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
sudo\-logger\-agent \- audit agent for sudo session recording and privilege escalation tracking
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sudo\-logger\-agent
[\fB\-config\fR \fIfile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sudo\-logger\-agent
is a systemd daemon that runs as root on each client machine.
It consolidates four subsystems into a single process:
.SS Plugin handler
Listens on a Unix socket at
.B /run/sudo-logger/plugin.sock
for connections from the sudo I/O plugin.
One goroutine is spawned per sudo session.
Each goroutine opens a dedicated TLS connection to the log server,
forwards
.BR SESSION_START ,
.BR CHUNK ,
and
.B SESSION_END
messages, and tracks the ACK state for that session.
.PP
If the log server is unreachable when a new session arrives,
the agent returns a
.B SESSION_ERROR
reply; the sudo plugin blocks the command from running.
.PP
If the server stops acknowledging during a session,
the agent freezes all child processes in the session cgroup within
approximately 800\~ms.
The session is automatically resumed when the server becomes reachable again.
.PP
A priority-based asynchronous delivery system ensures that heartbeats
and user input are never starved by high-volume terminal output bursts.
.SS eBPF subsystem
Three kernel tracepoints are attached at startup (requires kernel \(>= 5.8
with
.BR CONFIG_DEBUG_INFO_BTF=y ):
.IP \(bu 4
.B sys_enter_write
\(em captures TTY I/O for
.BR pkexec (1)
sessions.
.IP \(bu
.B sys_enter_execve
\(em detects
.BR sudo (8)
and
.BR pkexec (1)
invocations to correlate eBPF-observed sessions with plugin-reported sessions.
.IP \(bu
.B sched_process_exit
\(em detects session end.
.PP
If the kernel lacks BTF support, the eBPF subsystem is skipped and the agent
continues in plugin-only mode (a warning is logged).
.SS D-Bus polkit monitor
Uses
.B BecomeMonitor
on the system D-Bus to observe
.B org.freedesktop.PolicyKit1.Authority.CheckAuthorization
calls in read-only mode.
For each completed authorization that required user interaction (challenged or
denied), a session record is sent to the log server.
Auto-authorized actions are silently skipped.
.PP
If the log server is unreachable, events are held in an in-memory queue
(up to 200 events, 10-minute TTL) and retried every 30 seconds.
.SS Divergence detector
Correlates eBPF-observed
.BR sudo (8)
execve events with plugin
.B SESSION_START
messages within a 30-second window.
If no match arrives, the agent sends a
.B DIVERGENCE_ALERT
to the log server; the server creates a synthetic session record visible
in the replay UI with a
.I \(dq\&no plugin\(dq
badge.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-config " file"
Path to the configuration file.
Default:
.BR /etc/sudo-logger/agent.conf .
If
.B agent.conf
is absent and the legacy
.B /etc/sudo-logger/shipper.conf
exists, it is used automatically with a warning.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is read from the file specified by
.BR \-config .
Format: one
.IB key " = " value
assignment per line;
lines beginning with
.B #
are comments.
.PP
.TS
tab(|) allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Key|Default|Description
server|logserver:9876|Remote log server address (\fIhost:port\fR)
cert|/etc/sudo-logger/client.crt|PEM client TLS certificate
key|/etc/sudo-logger/client.key|PEM client TLS private key
ca|/etc/sudo-logger/ca.crt|PEM CA certificate for server verification
verify_key|/etc/sudo-logger/ack-verify.key|ed25519 public key for ACK signature verification
socket|/run/sudo-logger/plugin.sock|Unix socket path for plugin connections
wayland|true|Enable Wayland screen capture for GUI sessions
proxy_bin|\fI(built-in path)\fR|Path to the Wayland proxy binary
proxy_period|200ms|Wayland screenshot capture interval
freeze_timeout|3m|Terminate frozen sessions after this duration (0 = never)
idle_timeout|0|Terminate sessions idle for this duration (0 = disabled)
ebpf|true|Enable eBPF session recording (requires kernel BTF)
dbus|true|Enable D-Bus polkit monitoring
mask_pattern|\fI\(em\fR|Additional regex pattern for secret redaction (repeatable)
disclaimer|\fI\(em\fR|Banner text written to each session terminal at start
disclaimer_color|yellow|ANSI color for the disclaimer banner
debug|false|Enable verbose debug logging
.TE
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/agent.conf
Primary configuration file.
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/client.crt
Client TLS certificate presented to the server during mutual TLS.
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/client.key
Private key for the client TLS certificate.
Permissions should be 0600.
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/ca.crt
Certificate Authority certificate used to verify the server certificate.
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/ack-verify.key
ed25519 public key (PEM PKIX) used to verify ACK signatures.
Generated by the server RPM; copy to each client after server installation.
.TP
.B /run/sudo-logger/plugin.sock
Unix domain socket.
Permissions 0600; only root processes (sudo) may connect.
Peer UID is verified via
.B SO_PEERCRED
before the connection is accepted.
.TP
.B /sys/kernel/btf/vmlinux
Kernel BTF data required for eBPF CO-RE.
Absence causes the agent to start in plugin-only mode.
.TP
.B /sys/fs/bpf
BPF filesystem used for pinning BPF programs.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM ", " SIGINT
Gracefully unfreezes all active session cgroups before exiting.
This prevents processes from being left in a permanently frozen state
if the agent is restarted during an active sudo session
(e.g. during a system update).
.SH SECURITY
The agent verifies two properties before accepting a connection on the plugin socket:
.IP \(bu 4
File permissions: the socket is mode 0600 (root only).
.IP \(bu
Peer credentials: the connecting process must have UID 0,
verified via
.BR SO_PEERCRED .
.PP
ACK messages from the server are verified using ed25519 signatures.
The signed message includes the session ID, sequence number, and timestamp,
so an ACK captured from one session cannot be replayed against another.
.PP
.B cgroup namespace isolation
.PP
The agent moves the sudo process into a per-session cgroup before sending
.B SESSION_READY
to the plugin.
The plugin then calls
.BR unshare (2)
with
.B CLONE_NEWCGROUP
so that child processes (bash, helper programs) see the session cgroup as
their filesystem root for
.IR /sys/fs/cgroup .
A child process cannot reference or write to cgroups outside this subtree,
so it cannot self-migrate to escape
.B cgroup.freeze
even if it holds
.BR CAP_SYS_ADMIN .
.PP
The agent itself remains in the host cgroup namespace and continues to
manage
.B cgroup.freeze
and
.B cgroup.procs
via the full host path.
The existing Unix socket connection between plugin and agent is unaffected
because sockets are not part of the cgroup namespace.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sudo\-logserver (8),
.BR sudo\-replay\-server (8),
.BR sudo_logger_plugin (8),
.BR sudoreplay (8),
.BR sudo.conf (5),
.BR systemd.unit (5)
