.TH SUDO\-LOGSERVER 8 "2026-04-11" "sudo-logger 1.17.0" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
sudo\-logserver \- remote TLS server for sudo session recordings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sudo\-logserver
[\fB\-listen\fR \fIaddr\fR]
[\fB\-logdir\fR \fIdir\fR]
[\fB\-cert\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-key\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-ca\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-signkey\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-strict\-cert\-host\fR]
[\fB\-health\-listen\fR \fIaddr\fR]
[\fB\-storage\fR \fIbackend\fR]
[\fB\-s3\-bucket\fR \fIname\fR]
[\fB\-db\-url\fR \fIDSN\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sudo\-logserver
is a TLS server that receives sudo session recordings from one or more
.BR sudo\-shipper (8)
instances and writes them to disk as asciinema v2 session recordings.
.PP
Each client connection must present a certificate signed by the configured CA
(mutual TLS).
For each session the server:
.IP \(bu 4
Validates the session ID, user, and host fields.
.IP \(bu
Creates a session directory under
.IB logdir / user / host _ timestamp /\c
\&.
.IP \(bu
Streams terminal I/O as events into a
.B session.cast
file in asciinema v2 format.
.IP \(bu
Sends an ed25519-signed ACK for every received chunk.
The signature covers the session ID, sequence number, and timestamp,
binding each ACK to the specific session.
.PP
Sessions can be replayed with the web interface provided by
.BR sudo\-replay\-server (8).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-listen " addr"
Address to listen on in
.I host:port
format.
Use
.B :9876
to listen on all interfaces.
Default:
.BR :9876 .
.TP
.BI \-logdir " dir"
Base directory for session log storage.
Sessions are written to
.IB dir / user / host _ YYYYMMDD\- HHMMSS /\c
\&.
Default:
.BR /var/log/sudoreplay .
.TP
.BI \-cert " file"
Path to the PEM-encoded server TLS certificate.
Default:
.BR /etc/sudo-logger/server.crt .
.TP
.BI \-key " file"
Path to the PEM-encoded server TLS private key.
Permissions should be 0640 (root:sudologger).
Default:
.BR /etc/sudo-logger/server.key .
.TP
.BI \-ca " file"
Path to the PEM-encoded CA certificate used to verify client certificates.
Default:
.BR /etc/sudo-logger/ca.crt .
.TP
.BI \-signkey " file"
Path to the PEM-encoded PKCS8 ed25519 private key used to sign ACKs.
Generated automatically by the RPM
.B %post
scriptlet on first install.
Permissions must be 0640 (root:sudologger).
Default:
.BR /etc/sudo-logger/ack-sign.key .
.TP
.B \-strict\-cert\-host
Reject
.B SESSION_START
messages where the claimed
.B host
field does not match the CN or a DNS SAN of the presenting client certificate.
.IP
Disabled by default to support the common case of a single shared client
certificate (e.g.\& CN=\fIsudo-client\fR).
Enable this flag when each machine has its own certificate to prevent a
compromised shipper on host A from forging log entries attributed to host B.
.TP
.BI \-health\-listen " addr"
Start a plain HTTP server on
.I addr
(e.g.\&
.BR :9877 )
serving two endpoints:
.B /healthz
(always returns 200 OK) and
.B /metrics
(Prometheus text format with
.BR sudologger_sessions_active ,
.BR sudologger_sessions_total ,
and
.BR sudologger_sessions_incomplete_total ).
Disabled by default.
Enable in Kubernetes to replace the TCP-socket liveness probe with an HTTP
health check and to expose session-level metrics.
.TP
.BI \-storage " backend"
Storage backend to use.
.B local
(default) writes sessions to the local filesystem under
.BR \-logdir .
.B distributed
stores cast files in S3 (or any S3-compatible endpoint such as MinIO) and
session metadata in PostgreSQL.
.TP
.BI \-s3\-bucket " name"
S3 bucket name (required when
.BR \-storage=distributed ).
.TP
.BI \-s3\-endpoint " url"
Override the S3 endpoint URL.
Required for MinIO or NetApp StorageGRID deployments
(e.g.\&
.BR https://minio.internal:9000 ).
.TP
.B \-s3\-path\-style
Force path-style S3 URLs.
Required for MinIO and StorageGRID.
.TP
.BI \-s3\-access\-key " key"
Static S3 access key.
Leave empty to use the standard AWS credential chain
(environment variables, instance profile, IRSA).
.TP
.BI \-s3\-secret\-key " key"
Static S3 secret key (see
.BR \-s3\-access\-key ).
.TP
.BI \-db\-url " DSN"
PostgreSQL connection string (required when
.BR \-storage=distributed ).
Example:
.IR "postgres://user:pass@host:5432/dbname?sslmode=require" .
The schema (tables
.BR sudo_sessions ,
.BR sudo_risk_cache ,
.BR sudo_blocked_users ,
.BR sudo_config ,
.BR sudo_access_log )
is created automatically at startup.
.TP
.BI \-buffer\-dir " dir"
Local write-buffer directory used to stage cast files before uploading them to
S3 (distributed mode only).
In Kubernetes use an
.B emptyDir
volume.
Default:
.BR /var/lib/sudo-logger/buffer .
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM\fR / \fBSIGINT
Stop accepting new shipper connections and wait up to 30 seconds for active
sessions to complete before the process exits.
Sessions that are still open after the drain window are marked
.B INCOMPLETE
and closed.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/server.conf
Configuration file read by the systemd unit.
Sets
.B LISTEN_ADDR=
and
.B LOG_DIR=\&.
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/server.crt
Server TLS certificate.
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/server.key
Server TLS private key.
Permissions: 0640, owner root:sudologger.
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/ca.crt
CA certificate for verifying client certificates.
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/ack-sign.key
ed25519 private key (PEM PKCS8) for signing ACKs.
Generated automatically on first RPM install.
Permissions: 0640, owner root:sudologger.
.TP
.B /etc/sudo-logger/ack-verify.key
Corresponding ed25519 public key (PEM PKIX).
Generated alongside
.BR ack-sign.key .
Copy this file to all client machines after installation.
.TP
.B /var/log/sudoreplay/
Default log directory.
Each session is stored as a subdirectory:
.IR user / host _ YYYYMMDD\- HHMMSS /
containing the following files:
.RS
.TP
.B session.cast
asciinema v2 recording (header line + event lines).
.TP
.B exit_code
Exit status of the sudo command, written as a decimal integer when the server
receives a clean
.B SESSION_END
message.
Absent for sessions that ended without
.B SESSION_END
(the session will also have an
.B INCOMPLETE
marker in that case).
Read by
.BR sudo\-replay\-server (8)
when building SIEM events.
.TP
.BR ACTIVE " (marker)"
Present while the session is being recorded.
Removed by the server on any session close.
.TP
.BR INCOMPLETE " (marker)"
Written when the client connection dropped without sending
.BR SESSION_END .
.RE
.SH SECURITY
.B sudo\-logserver
requires mutual TLS for all connections.
Clients that do not present a valid certificate signed by the configured CA
are rejected at the TLS handshake.
.PP
If
.B \-strict\-cert\-host
is enabled, the
.B host
field in each
.B SESSION_START
message is additionally verified against the CN and DNS SANs of the client
certificate.
A mismatch is always logged as a
.B WARNING
even when the flag is not set.
.PP
Session and user/host fields are validated against
.B [a-zA-Z0-9._-]
before use in filesystem paths.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sudo\-shipper (8),
.BR sudo\-replay\-server (8),
.BR sudo_logger_plugin (8),
.BR systemd.unit (5)
